so guys I just learned that
drilling into the earth can tell
us about outer space
what is going on here
hello earthlings was that here
for dnews
scientists are drilling into the
earth we all know the earth is
made up of three major layers
the core the mental and crust
which is where we all live the
crest floats on the mantel a
super thick layer of mostly
slow-moving rock
we've been trying to reach the
mental since the nineteen
sixties but despite numerous
expeditions have still not Doug
past the crest
by all accounts attempting to
reach the mantle is dangerous
and expensive
so why are we trying so hard to
get down there because the
mantle can tell us a lot about
the history and formation of our
planet in the universe
the mantle makes up about eighty
four percent of the Earth's
volume and is incredibly hot
with temperatures that range
from around a thousand degrees
Celsius close to the crust to
about 4,000 degrees Celsius near
the core the weight of
everything above it creates
pressure that builds up
tremendously the closer we get
to the core
now the chris berries from five
to sixty kilometers thick with
the thinnest layers found under
the ocean
the farthest we've got in was in
the nineteen eighties in
Russia's kola peninsula where
they dug for 20 years and manage
a 12 kilometers deep hole which
was probably not even halfway to
the mantle this and many
expeditions have failed because
of technical difficulties like
improper equipment and just
plain bad luck in choosing spots
to drill but this doesn't mean
scientists have given up more
recently a team of scientists
from the International ocean
Discovery Program drilled into
the ocean crust and were able to
retrieve rocks that showed signs
of life
the rocks contained methane and
hydrogen which has one of the
researchers puts it
microbes can eat to grow and
form new cells
this is huge similar rocks gases
and conditions are found in
other planets
so according to the researchers
these Rock specimens can aid our
search and understanding of how
extraterrestrial life may exist
in similar inhospitable
conditions in the depths of the
universe for reaching the mantle
doesn't just teach us about
space it also teaches us about
Earth the mantles activity is
largely responsible for the
movement of tectonic plates
which scientists theorize
influences volcanic activity
earthquakes mountain ranges and
movement in the oceans
so understanding the mantle can
help us better understand the
its current topography and its
history including our continents
shifted throughout the ages and
are shifting today if we can
drill down to the mantle
researchers could have this type
of information straight from the
source
increasing its accuracy right
now we can only make inferences
about the structure of the earth
based on how fast an earthquake
seismic waves travel through the
planet and the roots they take
what we see on the crust and the
composition of rock samples
it wasn't too long ago that by
chance a volcano rejected a
diamond from the mantle that
confirmed that there is an
oceans worth of water in the
mantles transition zone
scientists learned this because
it contains ringwood I'd with a
certain amount of water in it
now this tiny Rock made a huge
difference and look
these rocks are great but
they're inconsistent we don't
know when the next mantle Rock
will be spewed out of which
volcano or if it will be intact
enough for scientists to derive
meaningful conclusions
we got lucky with this diamond
but often these rocks are too
damaged most have been bailed
out from volcanoes ejected by
tectonic plate crashes or create
upward to the ocean floor
these treacherous and often
erratic journeys leave scars on
them and leave scientists with
messy data
it's hard to know what
characteristics were the result
of the journey vs reflective of
the mantle itself so drilling
down to the mantle could mean
that we would finally be able to
get for stain samples of the
mantle and even an entryway for
further exploration
it could give us a clear look at
the mantle composition how it's
moving and more accurate
readings of its velocity
pressure and temperature in
essence with the earth and
possibly the universe is made of
but the drilling we most often
hear of is tied to oil to learn
more oil comes from check out
this video over on test-tube
news
historically we've gotten our
oil from traditional drilling
but nowadays almost half of
those 8.8 million daily barrels
are so-called tight oil that we
get from hydro fracking
there's been a lot of debate
about that for environmental
reasons but it's big business
for a lot of states and if you
have a bringing science question
you want to answer to let us
know in the comments below
keep coming back here for more
dnews throughout the week thanks
guys